# Random Maze Generator

This application generates a random perfect square maze, i.e. it does not contain unreachable passages and has a single entry, exit and solution.
You can enter the size of the maze it should generate. This number corresponds with the starting number of cells on a row. Passages are clear while walls are indicated by 'X'. Entry is a random position in the left wall, while exit is a random position in the right wall.

An example of a maze size 10:

```
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
X     X X X   X     X
XXXXX X X XXX XXX X X
X X X     X       X X
X X X XXX XXX X XXXXX
X X     X     X      
X XXXXXXXXX XXX XXX X
X     X       X   X X
X XXX XXX X XXX X XXX
X X       X   X X   X
XXXXX XXXXX X XXX X X
X   X X     X   X X X
XXX XXXXXXX XXX XXX X
X             X X   X
XXX X XXX XXX XXXXX X
X   X X     X X X   X
XXXXXXXXXXX X X XXX X
X           X X     X
X XXX X XXX X X XXX X
    X X X   X X   X X
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
```

## Algorithm
This maze generator is based on the [Prim-Jarnik algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prim%27s_algorithm) to find a minimum spanning tree in a weighted undirected graph.

### Description

It starts with a grid of vertices which are completely surrounded by walls. The algorithm randomly determines a starting vertex and adds all walls leading to another vertex to a list. While this list is not empty, pick a random wall, collapse it and remove it from the list, mark the new vertex as visited and add all its surrounding walls leading to an unvisited vertex to the list of walls. Once the list is empty, the algorithm randomly determines an entry and exit.

### Memory

The size of the maze which can be generated is determined by the size of the available memory as overhead is limited to keeping track of a list of walls.

### Maze characteristics

As the weight of each wall is the same, mazes generated by this algorithm tend to contain recurring patterns and more short dead ends. However there is no horizontal or vertical bias. 

## Dependencies

* Java SE 7
